---
# categories: ["Examples"]
# tags: ["test", "sample", "docs"]
title: "Dominions and Autonomous Systems"
linkTitle: "AI Controlled System"
date: 2017-01-05
description: >
  Dominions and Autonomous Systems
---
## General
### Do AI controlled systems build their own buildings?

They automatically construct buildings over time, very inefficiently. They stop building and upgrading when all of their build slots are full.

### How do I gain control of a Dominion or Autonomous System?
People can flip them to their faction by 2 means:
use Siderians to destabilize and then propaganda them to flip them into dominions
*OR*
Use a navarch with a fleet to conquer it as a system.
Both of these will require an open slot (either as dominion, or system slot)

### Where should I take a Dominion?
Anywhere where your faction could use an additional system controlled, or a system which you think would be valuable from a resource generation or population perspective. Releasing systems into Dominions is a good way to ensure they have good income and population, freeing up a system slot for a potentially more forward location.

### Can I use a colony ship to take control of an autonomous system?
No, only conquest or propaganda

### What sectors can I take over an AI controlled system in?
You can only take control of systems in sectors adjacent to one your faction already owns, or in a sector your faction owns.

### Autonomous systems
#### Are they farmable?
yes, Pillaging them is a good way to both level up your agents, and gain resources, repairing buildings is not too hard if someone takes it over. see [Pillaging](/docs/agents/navarch/#pillaging)

### Dominions

#### What do I get for having a dominion?
You get a base 30% of the resources (credit/technology/ideology) generated by the system, it counts towards ownership of sector for your faction, and its population counts towards the Path of Influence victory. You can view your current dominion tax rate in the overview panel (bottom left corner button), it can be increased with Lexes

#### If I queue a bunch of upgrades in a system and then flip it to domain, does it continue on its happy path?
yes

#### If I develop a system then switch it over to a domain system, does the AI then re-build everything or would it stay optimized to what I have created?
IA can't destroy then rebuild, so it will stay optimized. However, it won't upgrade them all the way (stops when all the slots are taken by a building)

Swapping a system from dominion to system has an increasing ideology cost of +5k each time you flip any system. It is sometimes better to abandon the system and then take control with a siderian, takes more time but has no increasing cost.
